# Introduction
In recent years, because of rapid transitions in software needs and related technologies, the life cycle of the software development is getting shorter. In addition, there is a growing trend toward open-source software development to improve software quality based on observation by numerous users and contributors. For short-term developments, a number of paradigms, frameworks, and development strategies have been promoted. Agile software development is a group of software development strategies that emphasizes close collaboration between programmer teams and business experts for small- or middle-scale projects \cite{agile,agile2}. Most agile methods break a task into small incremental phases with minimal planning and do not directly involve long-term planning. Each iteration involves a cross-functional team working in all phases related to planning, requirements analysis, design, coding, unit testing, and acceptance testing.

On the other hand, social coding is an open, collaborative approach to software development, where hundreds of team developers can work remotely, yet in real time, to build or improve software code. For example, GitHub \cite{github} is an open source software hosting service with collaboration among a huge number of users. GitHub provides a set of social coding tools built around a Git version control system and incorporates social functionality that makes a developer's identity and activities visible to other users. \cite{git, vcs}

Some agile methods are promising for use in short-term projects. However, in the case of open software development, the agile methods are not always the best strategy, because they give higher priority to team communication and prototype programs, despite the fact that open-source software development emphasizes documentation. In addition, for a project team, in which different experts such as designers, programmers, and UI designers, as well as customers, are involved, special tools which allow each expert to understand and modify certain features of the software in appropriate ways are required.

We propose a development methodology and the tools that preserve the productivity with the advantages of social coding platforms as well as the documentation. The goal here is to solve the above-mentioned problems by means of visual modeling tools based on hybrid editors for social coding. Using hybrid editors, the end users can
manipulate both texts in YAML \cite{yaml} and operable UML\cite{uml} diagrams. The tools automatically generate UML diagrams and the corresponding product template codes of classes and packages in several programming languages, such as Java. These products are generated from intermediate data in the abstract syntax tree (AST), which can be transformed into text in YAML and operable UML diagrams and vice versa. Since the modeling tools
use the specifications of Executable UML (xUML)\cite{xuml} within the transformation process, the produced UML diagrams can be both documents and sources of the product template code. In the present paper, the architecture of hybrid editors and the internal representation of the models are presented. A case study demonstrated that the tools of hybrid editors enable higher productivity, taking advantage of both text and GUI editors.

The remainder of the present paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, related research is described. In Section 3, the modeling tools and their advantages are described. Section 4 describes the proposed modeling tools and their algorithms are described in detail. In Section 5, the proposed approach is evaluated through a case study. Finally, conclusions and future research are discussed.

