#Related Work
\label{sec:related}
The proposed approach has relations with many trends in research and development, aimed to exploit visual languages applied for developing software components as well as for visual programming editors to create them\cite{scratch, labview}. Here, we focus on modeling tools which support to generate diagrams and the corresponding codes.

In short-term development, it is important to reduce the cost of the model generation and implementation for the productivity. There are three different approaches to increasing productivity: 1) generating UML diagrams from texts, 2) generating UML diagrams from source codes, and 3) generating source codes from executable UMLs.

The TextUML Toolkit\cite{text-uml} and yUML\cite{yuml} are related to the first approach. The TextUML Toolkit is an open-source eclipse plugin for UML. A textual notation is used for an inner representation of a class diagram. This can represent packages, classes, and relations of attributes, associations, operations, and generalizations in class diagrams. The advantages of the text notations of these tools are the simplicity and functionality of their text editors. However, such tools cannot generate the corresponding executable codes, and it is difficult for non-software engineers to manipulate texts in the low-level format.

AmaterasUML\cite{amt-uml} and Class Visualizer\cite{class-vis} are related to the second approach. AmaterasUML is an eclipse plugin which can create UML diagrams, including class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and use case diagrams. Among these tools, class diagrams can be automatically generated from source codes in Java. The advantage of these tools is that users can directly generate UML diagrams without cost. On the other hand, it is difficult for non-programmers to manipulate the models within these tools.

The Visual Paradigm\cite{visual-paradigm}, the xuml-tools\cite{xuml-tools} and the Action Language for the Foundational UML (ALF)\cite{alf} are related to the third approach, which is based on the model-driven architecture (MDA) approach\cite{mda, mda2, mdd, mdd2}. The MDA approach is important not only for generating source code based on models, but also for involving non-programmers in the system design. The xuml-tools is a web application for xUML which includes a class diagram viewer. A class diagram created within the viewer is compiled to the corresponding source codes in Java. The advantage of these tools is that users can directly generate executable codes from the model and vice versa. On the other hand, because of its tight-coupled models and codes, it is impossible to modify the products within the perfect MDA approach. Although there are many visual  tools with rather powerful functionality, it is difficult to find systems which provide users with the ability to work in texts and then switch to diagrams (and vise versa) based on their synchronization.

The creation of software languages and tools is becoming pervasive. Examples include general-purpose programming languages, domain-specific languages and modeling languages. Some of these languages are textual, some are visual, and some are both textual and visual. We will use the term hybrid languages\cite{hybrid} \cite{hybrid2} \cite{hybrid3} for languages that have both textual and visual syntax. Visual languages can benefit from having an alternative textual syntax, for example, to provide a concise standardized file representation, to be able to use existing general text-based development tools, and allowing users with different learning strategies (visual or textual) to use the language in the way they like.

In terms of the development of software languages and tools including general-purpose programming languages, domain-specific languages and modeling languages, there is an approach of hybrid languages that have both textual and visual syntax. In this approach, visual languages can benefit from having an alternative textual representations to be able to use existing general text-based development tools as well as to allow users with different learning strategies (visual or textual) to use the language in the way they like (see for example \cite{hybrid, hybrid2, hybrid3}).